.. _tutorial:

Tutorial
========

This tutorial walks you through the creation of a basic web site
edition of some historical letters. It is designed to provide
familiarity with how some of the pieces of Kiln work and can be used
together. It is not a tutorial in the individual technologies; it does
not try to teach XSLT programming, or RDF, or Solr. However, it also
does not require any great knowledge of same.

Installation
------------

Installation of Kiln itself is simple. You can download a ZIP file of
all the code and unpack it, or use the Git version control system to
clone the repository. Either way, the code is available at the `Kiln
repository`_, and you'll end up with that code somewhere on your
filesystem.

You'll also need to have Java 1.7 installed. If it isn't on your
system already, you can download it from https://www.java.com/.

The development server
----------------------

Let's verify that the installation worked. From the command line, cd
into the directory where you installed Kiln. There, run the
``build.sh`` script (if you are running GNU/Linux or Mac OS X) or the
``build.bat`` batch file (if you are running Windows). You'll see the
following output on the command line::

    Buildfile: <path to your Kiln>/local.build.xml
    Development server is running at http://127.0.0.1:9999
    Quit the server with CONTROL-C.

You've started Jetty, a lightweight web server, that is pre-configured
to run all of the various Kiln components. Note that it may take a few
seconds after it prints out the above for the server to become
responsive.

Now that the server is running, visit http://127.0.0.1:9999/ with your
web browser. You'll see a "Welcome to Kiln" page.

.. note:: Changing the port

   By default, the ``build`` command starts the development server on
   the internal IP at port 9999.

   If you want to change the server's port, pass it as a command-line
   argument. For instance, this command starts the server on port
   8080::

      ./build.sh -Djetty.port=8080

   To change the default, edit the value of ``jetty.port`` in the file
   ``local.build.properties``.

   The default values of the Solr and Sesame servers, as specified in
   ``webapps/ROOT/sitemaps/config.xmap``, use port 9999, so if
   you intend to use those under the dev server, that value will need
   to be changed.


Adding content
--------------

The main content of many Kiln sites is held in `TEI`_ XML files, so
let's add some. Unzip :download:`the accompanying set of TEI files
<tei.zip>` into ``webapps/ROOT/content/xml/tei/``.

Now navigate to the text overview at http://127.0.0.1:9999/text/,
available as the Texts menu option. This presents a table with various
details of the texts in sortable columns. With only a homogenous
collection of a few letters, this is not very useful, but it does
provide links to the individual texts. Follow the link to the first
letter.


Customising the TEI display
---------------------------

Given the enormous flexibility of the TEI to express various
semantics, and the range of possible displays of a TEI document, there
is no one size fits all solution to the problem of transforming a TEI
document into HTML. Kiln comes with `XSLT`_ code that provides support
for some types of markup, but it is expected for each project to
either customise it or replace it altogether. Let's do the former.

Kiln uses the XSLT at ``webapps/ROOT/stylesheets/tei/to-html.xsl`` to
convert TEI into HTML. Open that file in your preferred XML editor. As
you can see, it is very short! All it does is import another XSLT,
that lives at ``webapps/ROOT/kiln/stylesheets/tei/to-html.xsl``. This
illustrates one of the ways that Kiln provides a separation between
Kiln's defaults and project-specific material. Rather than change the
XSLT that forms part of Kiln (typically, files that live in
``webapps/ROOT/kiln``), you change files that themselves import those
files. This way, if you upgrade Kiln and those files have changed,
you're not stuck trying to merge the changes you made back into the
latest file. And if you don't want to make use of Kiln's XSLT, just
remove the import.

.. note:: So how does Kiln know that we want to transform the TEI into
   HTML using this particular XSLT?

   This is specified in a Cocoon sitemap file, which defines the URLs
   in your site, and what to do, and to what, for each of them. In
   this case any request for a URL starting ``texts/`` and ending in
   ``.html`` will result in the XML file with the same name being read
   from the filesystem, preprocessed, and then transformed using the
   ``to-html.xsl`` code.

   Sitemap files are discussed later in the tutorial.

Let's change the rendering, in an admittedly trivial way, so that the
names of people and places are italicised. This involves adding a
template like the following::

   <xsl:template match="tei:persName | tei:placeName">
     <i>
       <xsl:apply-templates />
     </i>
   </xsl:template>

Add this after the ``xsl:import`` element. Now reload the page showing
that text, and you'll see the text rerendered with italics sprinkled
throughout.

.. warning:: Cocoon automatically caches the results of most requests,
   and invalidates that cache when it detects changes to the files
   used in creating the resource. Thus after making a change to
   ``to-html.xsl`` (the one in ``stylesheets/tei``, not the one in
   ``kiln/stylesheets/tei/``), reloading the text shows the effects of
   that change. However, Cocoon does not follow ``xsl:import`` and
   ``xsl:include`` references when checking for changed files. This
   means that if you change such an imported/included file, the cached
   version of the resource will be used.

   To ensure that the cache is invalidated in such cases, update the
   timestamp of the including file, or the source document. This can
   be done by re-saving the file (add a space, remove it, and save).


Adding images
.............

Images referenced within TEI files (using ``tei:figure/tei:graphic``)
are converted by the ``kiln/stylesheets/tei/to-html.xsl`` XSLT into
HTML ``img`` elements. The ``src`` URL is typically to
``/images/{/tei:TEI/@xml:id}/{@url}`` and these URLs are resolved to
look in ``content/images/`` for the file. So if you add the following
to ``content/xml/tei/Had1.xml``::

   <figure>
     <graphic url="image-filename.jpg" />
     <figDesc>This becomes HTML alt text.</figDesc>
   </figure>

and place ``image-filename.jpg`` (using whatever JPEG image file you
wish) in ``content/images/Had1/``, the image should appear in the HTML
display.

Images that are part of the site design, rather than content, should
be put in ``assets/images/``, and the pipelines in
``kiln/sitemaps/assets.xmap`` used. In a template, for example::

   <img src="{$kiln:assets-path}/images/logo.jpg" alt="My Favourite Sponsor" />

Kiln can support any image file type, since no processing is done to
the files. The pipelines simply transmit the files with an appropriate
MIME type. Pipelines exist for GIF, JPEG, and PNG images; others are
easily added, to ``sitemaps/main.xmap`` and/or
``kiln/sitemaps/assets.xmap``.


Searching and indexing
----------------------

Indexing
........

In order to provide any useful results, the search engine must index
the TEI documents. This functionality is made available in the `admin
section`_ of the site. You can either index each document
individually, or index them all at once.

.. note:: If you started Kiln with a different port from the default,
   you must change the port in ``solr-server`` element in the file
   ``webapps/ROOT/sitemaps/config.xmap`` to match.

There are two possible parts of customising the indexing: changing the
available fields that data can be indexed into, and changing the
XSLT that specifies what information gets stored in which fields.

To change the fields in the index, modify the Solr schema document at
``webapps/solr/conf/schema.xml``. Refer to the `Solr documentation`_
for extensive documentation on this and all other aspects of the Solr
search platform.

It would be useful to index the recipient of each letter, so that this
may be displayed as a facet in search results. In the ``fields``
element in ``schema.xml``, define a recipient field::

   <field indexed="true" multiValued="false" name="recipient"
          required="true" stored="true" type="string" />

After changing the schema, you will need to restart Jetty so that the
new configuration is loaded. You can check the schema that Solr is
using via the Solr admin interface at http://127.0.0.1:9999/solr/ (the
specific URL is http://localhost:9999/solr/#/collection1/schema).

Changing the data that is indexed is done by modifying the XSLT
``stylesheets/solr/tei-to-solr.xsl``. Just as with the TEI to HTML
transformation, this XSLT imports a default Kiln XSLT that can be
overridden. We need to modify this file (not the default Kiln XSLT) to
add in the indexing of the recipient into the new schema. Looking at
``kiln/stylesheets/solr/tei-to-solr.xsl``, the default indexing XSLT
traverses through the teiHeader's descendant elements in the mode
``document-metadata``. It is a simple matter to add in a template to
match on the appropriate element::

   <xsl:template match="tei:profileDesc/tei:particDesc//tei:person[@role='recipient']"
                 mode="document-metadata">
     <field name="recipient">
       <xsl:value-of select="normalize-space()" />
     </field>
   </xsl:template>

You will also need to add a namespace declaration for the ``tei``
prefix to the root ``xsl:stylesheet`` element:
``xmlns:tei="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0"``.

Now reindex the letters.

.. warning:: Omitting a namespace prefix that is used in an XPath
   expression in an XSLT document will cause incomprehensible and
   difficult to debug errors in the output, rather than a useful error
   message. If you get results that make no sense, check that all of
   the namespace prefixes that are used in the code are declared!


Facets
......

To customise the use of facets, modify the XML file
``webapps/ROOT/assets/queries/solr/facet_query.xml``. This file
defines the base query that a user's search terms are added to, and
can also be used to customise all other parts of the query, such as
how many search results are displayed per page. The format is
straightforward; simply add elements with names matching the Solr
query parameters. You can have multiple elements with the same name,
and the query processor will construct it into the proper form for
Solr to interpret.

Add in a facet for the recipient field and perform a search. The new
facet is automatically displayed on the search results page, and
should look something like this:

.. image:: /images/search_screenshot.png
   :align: center
   :alt: 
   :width: 90%

Results display
...............

The default results display is defined in
``stylesheets/solr/results-to-html.xsl`` and gives only the title of
the matching documents. Modify that XSLT to provide whatever format of
search results best suits your needs.


Building static pages
---------------------

Not all pages in a site need be generated dynamically from TEI
documents. Let's add an "About the project" page with the following
steps.

.. note:: This section introduces a lot of concepts that may be
   entirely new to you. Some of this is about the Cocoon software; if
   you need more information, try looking at the `Overview of Apache
   Cocoon`_ and `Cocoon Concepts`_ documentation on the Cocoon site.


Adding a URL handler
....................

Each URL or set of URLs available in your web application is defined
in a Cocoon sitemap that specifies the source document(s), a set of
transformations to that document, and an output format for the
result. Sitemaps are XML files, and are best edited in an XML
editor. Open the file ``webapps/ROOT/sitemaps/main.xmap``.

The bulk of this file is the contents of the ``map:pipelines``
element, which holds several ``map:pipeline`` elements. In turn, these
hold the URL definitions that are the ``map:match`` elements. Each
``map:match`` has a ``pattern`` attribute that specifies the URL(s)
that it defines. This pattern can include wildcards, ``*`` and ``**``,
that match on any sequence of characters except ``/`` and any sequence
of characters, respectively.

The order of the ``map:match`` elements is important --- when a
request for a URL is handled by Kiln, it is processed using the first
``map:match`` whose pattern matches that URL. Then the child elements
of the ``map:match`` are executed (the XML here is all interpreted as
code) in order.

Go to the part of the document that defines the handler for the
``search/`` URL. Below that, add in a match for the URL
``about.html``. Since we'll be putting the content of the page we want
to return into the template (this is not the only way to do it!), our
source document is just the menu, and the only transformation is
applying the template. Your ``map:match`` should look something like the
following (and very similar to the one for the home page)::

   <map:match id="local-about" pattern="*/about.html">
     <map:aggregate element="aggregation">
       <map:part src="cocoon://_internal/menu/main.xml?url={1}/about.html" />
     </map:aggregate>
     <map:transform src="cocoon://_internal/template/about.xsl">
       <map:parameter name="language" value="{1}" />
     </map:transform>
     <map:serialize />
   </map:match>

Even in such a short fragment there is a lot going
on. The ``pattern="about.html"`` attribute specifies that when a
request is made for the URL ``http://localhost:9999/about.html``
(assuming we are running on the default Kiln development server), the
response is defined by the contents of this ``map:match`` element. As
mentioned above, each of these definitions consists of generating a
source document, transforming it in some fashion, and serialising the
result in some format (such as XML or HTML or PDF). Only one document
can be generated, and it is serialised only once, but there can be any
number of transformations that occur in between.

``map:aggregate`` creates an XML document with a root element of
``aggregation``, containing in this case one part (subelement). This
part is the product of internally making a request for the URL
``_internal/menu/main.xml?url=about.html``, which returns the menu
structure. The use of URLs starting with ``cocoon:/`` is common, and
allows a modular structure with lots of individual pieces that can be
put together. If you want to see the ``map:match`` that handles this
menu URL, open ``webapps/ROOT/kiln/sitemaps/main.xmap`` and look for
the ``kiln-menu`` pipeline.

.. note:: A pipeline (a collection of ``map:match`` elements) may be
   marked as internal only (``map:pipeline internal-only="true"``),
   meaning that it is only available to requests from within Kiln (via
   a ``cocoon:/`` or ``cocoon://`` URL). If you request a URL that is
   matched by such an internal pipeline, such as via your browser, it
   will not match.

   Kiln's generic pipelines are generally marked as internal only, and
   are grouped under the URL ``_internal`` (eg,
   ``http://localhost:9999/_internal/menu/main.xml``). It also uses
   the convention of putting internal only pipelines that are project
   specific under the URL ``internal`` (without the initial
   underscore).

The templating transformation, which puts the content of the
``aggregation`` element into a template, also internally requests a
URL. That URL returns the XML template file transformed into an XSLT
document, which is then applied to the source document!

Finally, the document is serialised; in this case no serializer is
specified, meaning that the default (HTML 5) is used.

Now that the ``about.html`` URL is defined, try requesting it at
http://127.0.0.1:9999/about.html. Not surprisingly, an error occurred,
because (as the first line of the stacktrace reveals) there is no
``about.xml`` template file. It's time to make one.


Adding a template
.................

Template files live in ``webapps/ROOT/assets/templates/``. They are
XML files, and must end in ``.xml``. In the ``map:match`` we just
created, the template was referenced at the URL
``cocoon://_internal/template/about.xsl`` --- there the ``xsl``
extension informally specifies the format of the document returned by
a request to that URL, but it reads the source file ``about.xml`` in
the templates directory. You can see how this works in the sitemap
file ``webapps/ROOT/kiln/sitemaps/main.xmap`` in the
``kiln-templating`` pipeline.

Create a new file, ``about.xml``, in the template directory. We could
define everything we want output in this file, but it's much better to
reuse the structure and style used by other pages on the site. Kiln
templates use a system of inheritance in which a parent template
defines arbitrary blocks of output that a child template can override
or append to. Open the ``base.xml`` file in the templates directory to
see the root template the default Kiln site uses. Mostly this is just
a lot of HTML, but wrapped into chunks via ``kiln:block``
elements. Now look at the ``tei.xml`` template, which shows how a
template can inherit from another and provide content only for those
blocks that it needs to.

Go ahead and add to ``about.xml`` (using ``tei.xml`` as a guide)
whatever content you want the "About the project" page to have. This
should just be HTML markup and content, placed inside the appropriate
``kiln:block`` elements. Since there is no source document being
transformed, there's no need to have the ``xsl:import`` that
``tei.xml`` has, and wherever it has ``xsl:value-of`` or
``xsl:apply-templates``, you should just put in whatever text and HTML
5 markup you want directly.


Updating the menu
.................

In the ``map:match`` you created in ``main.xmap`` above, the
aggregated source document consisted only of a call to a URL
(``cocoon://_internal/menu/main.xml?url={1}/about.htm``) to get a menu
document. In that URL, ``main.xml`` specifies the name of the menu
file to use, which lives in ``webapps/ROOT/assets/menu/``. Let's edit
that file to add in an entry for the new About page. This is easy to
do by just inserting the following::

   <menu match="local-about" label="About the project" />

Reload any of the pages of the site and you should now see the new
menu item. Obviously this menu is still very simple, with no
hierarchy. Read the :ref:`full menu documentation <navigation>` for
details on how to handle more complex setups.


Harvesting RDF
--------------

In order to make use of Kiln's RDF capabilities, some setup is
required. Firstly create a repository in the Sesame server using the
"New repository" link at http://127.0.0.1:9999/openrdf-workbench/,
using the default options. The ID you provide should just contain
letters.

Next set two variables in ``webapps/ROOT/sitemaps/config.xmap``:
``sesame-server-repository`` to the name of the repository you just
created, and ``rdf-base-uri`` to any absolute URI for your triples;
we'll use http://www.example.org/.

With that setup done, it is time to create the XSLT that will generate
RDF XML from the TEI documents. Place the provided
:download:`harvesting XSLT <tei-to-rdf.xsl>` at
``webapps/ROOT/stylesheets/rdf/tei-to-rdf.xsl`` (replacing the
existing placeholder file). Now you can harvest the RDF data using the
links in the admin. You can use the workbench link given above to
examine the data in the repository.

.. note:: Both the ontology and the harvesting are primitive, and
   designed to be simple enough for the tutorial, without being
   entirely trivial. Harvesting the ontology from each TEI document is
   not good practice, nor is harvesting identifiers multiple times for
   the same entity.


Querying RDF
------------

Having put RDF data into the repository, it is of course necessary to
be able to get it back out. The simplest approach is to create an XML
file in ``webapps/ROOT/assets/queries/sparql/`` that has a root ``query``
element containing the plain text of the SPARQL query.

For example, to retrieve just the triples giving the recipient of each
letter, save the following to
``webapps/ROOT/assets/queries/sparql/recipients.xml``::

   <query>
   PREFIX ex:&lt;http://www.example.org/>
   PREFIX rdf:&lt;http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>

   CONSTRUCT { ?correspondence ex:has_recipient ?recipient ;
                               ex:has_document ?letter . }
   WHERE { ?correspondence ex:has_recipient ?recipient ;
                           ex:has_document ?letter . }
   </query>

.. note:: Within an XML SPARQL query document, XML rules apply,
   meaning that XML-significant characters (primarily <) need to be
   escaped (&lt;).

To get the results from this query, use the URL
``cocoon://admin/rdf/query/graph/recipients.xml`` in a sitemap's
``map:generate`` or ``map:part`` ``src`` attribute. Remember that
``map:generate`` and ``map:aggregate`` (which contains ``map:part``
elements) are the way that Cocoon generates a source document.

.. note:: While the Sesame RDF server can return results in various
   formats, due to Kiln working best with XML documents it is set up
   to make Graph Queries (using the CONSTRUCT command) with results in
   RDF XML.

Let's use a similar set of query results to display a list of other
letters to the same recipient on each letter's page. As it stands the
query returns the letters for *all* recipients in the collection, not
just those that match a particular recipient. Therefore we need a way
to pass in the name of the current letter's recipient to the query and
get back the filtered results. Remember that the query document is
just an XML document, so we can modify it with XSLT to supply that
value.

The :download:`new query <recipients.xml>` should be saved at
``webapps/ROOT/assets/queries/sparql/recipients.xml`` (you don't need
the old version). Take a look at how it has changed, through the
addition of the ``recipient`` element placeholder and using a custom
output that better matches the information we want.

The URL mentioned above for performing a query of the RDF server calls
the URL ``cocoon://admin/rdf/construct/graph/{1}.xml`` (where "{1}" is
whatever is matched by the "**" of the first URL). This URL is handled
by a ``map:match`` in ``webapps/ROOT/sitemaps/rdf.xmap``, by reading
the specified file. It is this ``map:match`` that needs to be modified
or added to in order to customise the query.

Since you may want to handle multiple SPARQL queries in different
ways, we'll add another ``map:match``, before the one with the id
"local-rdf-query-from-file". Its pattern needs to match
``/admin/rdf/construct/graph/**.xml``, but be more specific to
catch only the recipient query. There also needs to be an element in
the URL that specifies the particular recipient we want to include in
the query. A pattern of
``construct/graph/recipient/*.xml`` is suitable, where \* will be
the recipient name. The path to the query file can be specified
explicitly.

.. note:: The "/admin/rdf" part of the URL is common to all patterns
   specified in the ``rdf.xmap`` file. A sitemap file (``*.xmap``)
   includes another sitemap by mounting it at a particular URL, and
   can specify a URI prefix that is common to all URL patterns defined
   therein. See the ``uri-prefix`` attributes on the ``map:mount``
   elements in ``main.xmap`` and ``admin.xmap``.

The full ``map:match`` is as follows::

   <map:match pattern="construct/graph/recipient/*.xml">
     <map:generate src="../assets/queries/sparql/recipients.xml" />
     <map:transform src="../stylesheets/rdf/add-recipient.xsl">
       <map:parameter name="recipient" value="{1}" />
     </map:transform>
     <map:serialize type="xml" />
   </map:match>

Note how the name of the recipient (that will be matched by \* in the
pattern) is passed as a parameter to the XSLT. That XSLT, which is
very simple, is as follows::

   <xsl:stylesheet version="2.0"
                   xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform">

     <xsl:param name="recipient" />

     <xsl:template match="recipient">
       <xsl:value-of select="$recipient" />
     </xsl:template>

     <xsl:template match="*">
       <xsl:copy>
         <xsl:apply-templates />
       </xsl:copy>
     </xsl:template>
   </xsl:stylesheet>

This should be saved to
``webapps/ROOT/stylesheets/rdf/add-recipient.xsl``.

Now of course we need to call the query URL, including the specific
recipient name to search on. This means the request for that URL must
come at a point in the processing that has access to the TEI document
being displayed. We'll use an `XInclude`_ to include the query results
in our TEI document. This works by adding an XInclude element with an
``href`` attribute specifying the URL of the resource to be included,
and then using Cocoon's XInclude processor to perform the actual
inclusion.

To add the XInclude element, we of course use XSLT. In
``webapps/ROOT/sitemaps/main.xmap``, modify the ``map:match`` for TEI
display (its id is "local-tei-display-html") to add the line::

   <map:transform src="../stylesheets/tei/add-recipient-query.xsl" />

before the existing ``map:transform``. Then place the provided
:download:`XSLT <add-recipient-query.xsl>` at
``webapps/ROOT/stylesheets/tei/add-recipient-query.xsl``. This XSLT
just copies the existing document and adds the XInclude element.

To actually process the XInclude element so that the resource at the
URL it specifies is included into the document, add the following line
to the ``map:match``, immediately after the ``map:transform`` element
you just added::

   <map:transform type="xinclude" />

Now the document that is manipulated by the template consists of a
top-level ``aggregation`` element that has three sub-elements: ``tei:TEI``
(the TEI document), ``kiln:nav`` (the site navigation), and
``rdf:RDF``, the query results. It's now possible, after all this
setup, to modify the template to transform the query results into the
list of other letters to the same recipient. Edit
``webapps/ROOT/assets/templates/tei.xml`` and add the line::

   <xsl:apply-templates mode="recipients" select="/aggregation/rdf:RDF" />

after the line that applies templates to the ``teiHeader`` element
(and before the closing ``div`` tag). You will also need to add a
namespace declaration to the ``kiln:root`` element::

   xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"

Now edit ``webapps/ROOT/stylesheets/tei/to-html.xsl`` and add in the
following (along with, again, the RDF namespace declaration and one
binding the prefix ``ex`` to ``http://www.example.org/``; you'll get
some odd errors if you don't!)::

   <xsl:template match="rdf:RDF" mode="recipients">
     <xsl:if test="count(rdf:Description) &gt; 1">
       <div class="section-container accordion" data-section="accordion">
         <section>
           <h2 class="title" data-section-title="">
             <small><a href="#">Other Letters to this Recipient</a></small>
           </h2>
           <div class="content" data-section-content="">
             <ul class="no-bullet">
               <xsl:apply-templates mode="recipients" />
             </ul>
           </div>
         </section>
       </div>
     </xsl:if>
   </xsl:template>

   <xsl:template match="rdf:Description" mode="recipients">
     <xsl:variable name="tei_id" select="ex:has_identifier" />
     <xsl:if test="$tei_id != /aggregation/tei:TEI/@xml:id">
       <li>
         <a href="{$tei_id}.html">
           <xsl:value-of select="ex:has_date" />
         </a>
       </li>
     </xsl:if>
   </xsl:template>

And there it is! It's important to note that the above is not the only
way to achieve this result. The XInclude step might have been
incorporated into the TEI preprocessing pipeline; or the RDF query
modified to use the TEI ID as the variable rather than the recipient's
name; or the letter title harvested and used as the link title rather
than the date. Much depends, in crafting the components that go into
generating the resource for a URL, on whether and how those components
are used by other parts of the system.


Development aids
----------------

The `admin section`_ provides a few useful tools for developers in
addition to the processes that can be applied to texts. The
`Introspection`_ section allows you to look at some of what Kiln is
doing when it runs.

*Match for URL* takes a URL and shows you the full Cocoon
``map:match`` that processes that URL. It expands all references, and
links to all XSLT, so that what can be scattered across multiple
sitemap files, with many references to ``*`` and ``**``, becomes a single
annotated piece of XML. Mousing over various parts of the output will
reveal details such as the sitemap file containing the line or the
values of wildcards.

Much the same display is available for each ``map:match`` that has an
ID, in *Match by ID*.

Finally, *Templates by filename* provides the expanded XSLT (all
imported and included XSLT are recursively included) for each
template, and how that template renders an empty document.

The level of detail in the error messages Kiln provides can be reduced
by setting the ``debug`` element's value to 0 in the file
``webapps/ROOT/sitemaps/config.xmap``. This should be done in
production environments to avoid providing useless and/or system
information revealing information to users.


.. _admin section: http://127.0.0.1:9999/admin/
.. _Cocoon Concepts: http://cocoon.apache.org/2.1/userdocs/concepts/index.html
.. _Introspection: http://127.0.0.1:9999/admin/introspection/
.. _Kiln repository: https://github.com/kcl-ddh/kiln/
.. _Overview of Apache Cocoon: http://cocoon.apache.org/2.1/overview.html
.. _Solr documentation: http://lucene.apache.org/solr/documentation.html
.. _TEI: http://www.tei-c.org/
.. _XSLT: http://www.w3.org/standards/xml/transformation
.. _XInclude: http://www.w3.org/TR/xinclude/
